---
title: "CFD Julia: A Learning Module Structuring an Introductory Course on Computational Fluid Dynamics"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2015-10-01-pawar2019fluids
excerpt: 'This paper is about the programming module developed in Julia to demonstrate different concepts in CFD with the help of simple test problems.'
date: 08-19-2019
venue: 'Journal 1'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/pawar2019fluids.pdf'
---
CFD Julia is a programming module developed for senior undergraduate or graduate-level coursework which teaches the foundations of computational fluid dynamics (CFD). The module comprises several programs written in general-purpose programming language Julia designed for high-performance numerical analysis and computational science. The paper explains various concepts related to spatial and temporal discretization, explicit and implicit numerical schemes, multi-step numerical schemes, higher-order shock-capturing numerical methods, and iterative solvers in CFD. These concepts are illustrated using the linear convection equation, the inviscid Burgers equation, and the two-dimensional Poisson equation. The paper covers finite difference implementation for equations in both conservative and non-conservative form. The paper also includes the development of one-dimensional solver for Euler equations and demonstrate it for the Sod shock tube problem. We show the application of finite difference schemes for developing two-dimensional incompressible Navier-Stokes solvers with different boundary conditions applied to the lid-driven cavity and vortex-merger problems. At the end of this paper, we develop hybrid Arakawa-spectral solver and pseudo-spectral solver for two-dimensional incompressible Navier-Stokes equations. Additionally, we compare the computational performance of these minimalist fashion Navier-Stokes solvers written in Julia and Python.

[Download paper here](http://academicpages.github.io/files/pawar2019fluids.pdf)

